Douglas W. Sjoquist	dwSjoquist@sunetos.com
Sunetos, Inc.	www.sunetos.com
October 2001

Summary 
Experienced system architect with excellent analysis, design and development skills. 
Strong background with multi-tier, distributed system design and development on both 
the Java and Win32 platforms.  Rapid problem analysis with the ability to work with 
users in developing and refining requirements. Good grasp of how each piece fits in 
with organization's overall goals and needs. Extensive experience with object oriented 
design and development. Ability to learn and integrate new development techniques, 
tools, and skills quickly, soon becoming productive in the new environment.

Project Experience 
	System Analysis for a multi-tier, DII-COE system (2001) 
Analyzed components of several existing systems to develop initial set of requirements 
and level of effort for a logistical analysis tool for the Air Force.  The new system 
needed to comply with security and other external requirements such as DII-COE 
(Defense Information Infrastructure, Common Operating Environment)
WRM-CA, War Reserve Materiel Capability Assessment (1999-2001) 
System architect and lead developer for this multi-tier, distributed component system.  
The server layers are built on Allaire's Enterprise Java Beans (EJB 1.1) server, JRun, 
with an Oracle database used for persistence and Java Message Service (JMS) used for 
automatic notification of clients and users.  The primary client interface is pure Java 
using Swing components.  Portions of the server components are also accessible 
through a CORBA interface to provide a link with UTC-DT and other non-Java clients.
CBP, Collaborative Beddown Planner (1999-2000) 
CORBA (Common Object Request Broker Architecture) developer for this multi-tier, 
distributed component system.  A CORBA interface was added to an existing Win32 
application (Delphi) to use it as a server component in this EJB system. 
ALA, Air Logistics Application (1998-1999)
CORBA and Java developer for this multi-tier, distributed component system.  A 
CORBA interface was added to an existing Win32 application (Delphi) to use it as a 
server component in this Java/CORBA system. 
UTC-DT, Unit Type Code Development and Tailoring (1996-1999)
System architect and developer of this peer to peer system.  UTC-DT automates the 
generation of equipment requirements based on user defined rules and enables 
individuals to tailor those requirements.  It uses a custom peer-to-peer socket 
communication protocol developed for this project to allow multiple users across a 
LAN or the Internet to efficiently view and update the same detailed information.
Client/server system for secure database access (1995-1996) 
Developed the server and clients including book rental and sales, dormitory checkout, 
and secure network requests for information from the administrative database such as 
transcripts and account information.

Douglas W. Sjoquist	dwSjoquist@sunetos.com
Sunetos, Inc.	www.sunetos.com
October 2001

Design experience 
Multi-tier, distributed systems design and development		7 years
Peer to peer (P2P) design and development			3 years
Database design and development					15 years
CORBA, Common Object Request Broker Architecture		2 years
Object oriented design and development				11 years
J2EE, Java 2 Enterprise Edition design and development		2+ years
Software analysis, design, and development			21 years

Languages and Tools experience 
Java			Borland/JBuilder				5 years
J2EE		Allaire/JRun					2+ years
Delphi		Borland/Delphi				7 years
Palm OS		Java 2 Micro Edition (J2ME)			6 months
SQL			Oracle, Microsoft 				7 years
Linux		Red Hat distribution				2 years
CORBA		Inprise/VisiBroker				2 years
Other databases	UniData RDBMS				8 years
Other languages	C, FORTRAN, UniBasic, COBOL		21 years

Work Experience 
Sunetos, Inc.		1998-present	Contract software design and development with an 
emphasis on multi-tier, distributed component architectures
Synergy, Inc.		1996-1998	Software design and development
Rotman & Sjoquist	1988-1996	Extensive consulting and custom programming as part of a 
partnership
Cedarville College	1982-1996	Various roles beginning with programmer and ending with 
Assistant Director of Computer Services
Cedarville College	1985-1994	Adjunct Instructor, computer language courses
Custom development	1980-1988	Custom software development for various businesses.

Education 
B.A. Business Administration, Cedarville College, June 1982, GPA 3.5/4.0
Computer Information Systems emphasis
