Douglas W. Sjoquist                                       dwSjoquist@sunetos.com
Sunetos, Inc.                                                    www.sunetos.com
                                                                    January 2004

Summary 
  Experienced system architect with excellent communication, analysis, design 
  and development skills. Strong background with multi-tier, distributed system 
  design and development on handhelds (Palm OS, J2ME; PocketPC, Personal Java, 
  Embedded Visual tools), servers (J2EE, JRun, Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere), 
  application clients (Delphi, Java, Swing), and web clients (Servlets, JSP, 
  Struts).  Rapid problem analysis with the ability to work with users in 
  developing and refining requirements. Good grasp of how each piece fits in 
  with organization's overall goals and needs.  Extensive experience with 
  object oriented design and development.  Ability to learn and integrate new 
  development techniques, tools, and skills quickly, soon becoming productive 
  in the new environment. 

Project Experience
Java Servlet/Applet timecard (2003) 
  Developed time card applet interface to existing small business accounting 
  system that includes employee entry, modification and signing of hours and 
  supervisor approval and printing. 
Configurable real time engine data display (2003)
  Developed prototype system to provide a user configurable display system for 
  an integrated bridge system.  The system monitors and displays real time data 
  feeds from multiple engines in text or graphics mode. 
Port J2EE application from JBoss to WebSphere (2003) 
  Ported human resources application from JBoss to IBM WebSphere. 
Custom Java Servlet development (2003)
  Supported an integrated university course information system with faculty 
  submitted and maintained syllabi with custom servlets and applications.  
  Developed a servlet wrapper around an existing Perl based on-line courses 
  application.  Developed a custom Windows application to convert MS Word files 
  to PDF.  Developed a servlet wrapper for conversion application to support 
  web-based submission of documents to be converted.  Developed a control 
  servlet that manages the links between course information, document 
  conversion, on-line courses, and syllabi. 
Web portal development / Java mentoring (2003) 
  Assisted information technology personnel in an existing web portal project 
  (Java/Servlet based running under Tomcat).  I assisted with the integration 
  of their web portal with their LDAP server, existing network applications, 
  and custom security modules. 
Human resources employee evaluation web application (2002-2003) 
  Developed workflow application using open-source J2EE/Java components 
  (JBoss/Jetty/Jakarta Struts) for the creation, modification, and review of 
  employee evaluations.  Supervisors, managers, and human resources personnel 
  each have an active role to play in the automated workflow, making decisions 
  that modify the evaluation, return it for further review, or send it farther 
  in the workflow process.  
J2EE Mentoring (2002) 
  Mentored a client’s internal development group (Java developers) in the use 
  of J2EE/EJB.  Trained key personnel in design guidelines for distributed 
  architecture based on J2EE.  Assisted in migration of their custom Java 
  framework to a J2EE/EJB framework using JBoss. 
Subscription based web application for building a document library (2002) 
  Developed role-based J2EE application (JBoss/Jetty) using JSP, Servlets, and 
  EJB to allow an organization to build a community library of original 
  documents (MS-Word, text, and HTML), abstracts, and other references.  The 
  library allows custom categories, full text searching, and document browsing.  
Data distribution and collection application with WinCE/PocketPC client (2002) 
  Developed data distribution and collection application (Java) that allows a 
  non-programmer to generate custom forms and wizards for use on a handheld 
  client.  The administrator may then distribute data in XML format to handheld 
  clients and allow automatic or selective updates after the client uploads the 
  modified dataset. 
System Analysis for a multi-tier, DII-COE system (2001) 
  Analyzed components of several systems to develop set of requirements and 
  level of effort for a logistical analysis tool for the Air Force that must 
  comply with security and DII-COE (Defense Information Infrastructure, Common 
  Operating Environment) 
WRM-CA, War Reserve Materiel Capability Assessment (1999-2001) 
  System architect and lead developer for this multi-tier, distributed 
  component system.  The server layers are built on Allaire’s Enterprise Java 
  Beans (EJB 1.1) server, JRun, with an Oracle database used for persistence 
  and Java Message Service (JMS) used for automatic notification of clients and 
  users.  The primary client interface is pure Java using Swing components.  
  Portions of the server components are also accessible through a CORBA 
  interface to provide a link with non-Java clients. 

Douglas W. Sjoquist                                       dwSjoquist@sunetos.com
Sunetos, Inc.                                                    www.sunetos.com
                                                                    January 2004

Design experience 
  J2EE, Java 2 Enterprise Edition design and development     5 years
  Multi-tier, distributed systems design and development     9 years
  Software and database analysis, design, and development   24 years
  Handheld systems design and development                    1 year
  Peer to peer (P2P) design and development                  4 years
  CORBA, Common Object Request Broker Architecture           2 years
  Object oriented design and development                    15 years

Languages and Tools experience 
  Java             Intellij/Idea                             3 years
                   Borland/JBuilder                          6 years
  J2EE             Allaire/JRun                              4 years
                   JBoss/Jetty                               3 years
                   IBM WebSphere                             1 year
  Delphi           Borland/Delphi                            9 years
  Palm OS          Java 2 Micro Edition (J2ME)               1 year
  PocketPC/WinCE   Personal Java                             1 year
                   Embedded Visual tools                     1 year
  SQL              Oracle, Microsoft                         9 years
  Linux            Red Hat distribution                      4 years
  CORBA            Inprise/VisiBroker                        2 years
  Other databases  UniData RDBMS
  Other languages  C, FORTRAN, UniBasic, COBOL

Work Experience 
  Sunetos, Inc.      1998-present
                     Multi-tier, distributed system architect and developer
  Synergy, Inc.      1996-1998
                     Software design and development
  Rotman & Sjoquist  1988-1996
                     Extensive consulting and programming in a partnership
  Cedarville College 1982-1996
                     Various roles ending with Asst. Dir. of Computer Services
  Cedarville College 1985-1994
                     Adjunct Instructor, computer language courses
  Custom development 1980-1988
                     Custom software development for various businesses.

Education 
  B.A. Business Administration, Cedarville College, June 1982, GPA 3.5/4.0
  Computer Information Systems emphasis
