Douglas W. Sjoquist
Sunetos, Inc.
dwSjoquist@sunetos.com
www.sunetos.com

Summary
 Experienced system analyst with excellent design and programming skills. 
 The ability to analyze problems rapidly and clearly, and then work with 
 users in developing and refining requirements. Good grasp of how each 
 piece fits in with organization's overall goals and needs. Extensive 
 experience with object oriented programming. Ability to learn and 
 integrate new development techniques, tools, and skills quickly, soon 
 becoming productive in the new environment. 

Development expertise
 Proficient with Delphi Client/Server and JBuilder Client/Server, with 
 extensive experience using SQL, Visibroker, Oracle database server, MS 
 SQL Server, UniData, and other development tools. 

Education
 B.A. Business Administration, Cedarville College, June 1982, GPA 3.5/4.0
 Computer Information Systems emphasis

Major Software Projects

War Reserver Material Capability Assessment (WRM-CA)
 WRM-CA is currently being developed as a research project for the Air 
 Force to track current status and allocation of equipment distributed 
 around the world.  It is being developed with JBuilder 3 Enterprise 
 with a distributed component architecture built around Enterprise Java 
 Beans (EJB) and CORBA.  It will support collaborative work by 
 geographically distant users using a graphical, map based user 
 interface. 

Unit Type Code Development and Tailoring (UTC-DT)
 UTC-DT was developed for the Air Force to generate a list of 
 required equipment based on a user defined constraints and rules.  
 It is a collaborative, network based application based on 
 distributed, replicated objects implemented with Delphi C/S.
 Multiple users can view and edit the same dataset simultaneously 
 with their changes propogated over the network to the other 
 users.  

Air Logistics Application (ALA)
 ALA was developed for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
 (DARPA) as part of an integrated logistics planning tool. During 
 the design and development, I
 - helped develop the multi-tier architecture for ALA,
 - encapsulated an existing application in a CORBA wrapper 
   with Delphi C/S,
 - designed and developed the multi-thread assessment tier,
 - and wrote the interface between the GUI tier and a third party 
   mapping component. 

DataServer
 DataServer was developed for use on Cedarville College's campus 
 network.  It was developed to allow students and faculty to 
 request electronic copies of personal or work-related information 
 to be delivered to them via e-mail.  (It was developed before 
 web-based forms processing was an available option.) 


Other Software Projects
- DOS protected mode client/server system for secure database access
- Automated data transfers between disparate databases
- Distributed requisition entry and approval system
- On-line network surveys
- Network and local MS Windows shell integration
- Student loan application system
- Optical mark scanner serial interface 
- UniData data query and extraction language
- UniData spool queue control

Corporate Experience
Sunetos, Inc.
 1998-present, Software development
  Develop custom Delphi, Oracle, Java, and CORBA software under 
  contract to Synergy for USAF and DARPA contracts.

Synergy, Inc.
 1996-1998, System Analyst and Programmer
  Develop software on contract to the Logistics Research division 
  of the Air Force's Armstrong Labs 

Cedarville College
 1987-1996, Assistant Director of Computer Services
 1985-1994, Adjunct Computer Programming Instructor
 1982-1987, Various positions within computer services
 1988-1996, Technical consultant to more than a dozen colleges.

