Douglas W. Sjoquist                                       dwSjoquist@sunetos.com
Sunetos, Inc.                                                    www.sunetos.com
                                                                     August 2005

Summary 
  Experienced system architect with excellent communication, analysis, design  
  and development skills. Strong background with multi-tier, distributed system 
  design and development on servers (J2EE, Tomcat, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, BEA 
  WebLogic, TIBCO BusinessWorks, TIBCO Rendezvous, Oracle,  IBM DB2), 
  application clients (Java, Swing, Delphi), and web clients (Servlets, JSP, 
  JSF, Struts), and handhelds (Palm OS, PocketPC, J2ME).  Rapid problem analysis 
  with the ability to work with users in developing and refining requirements. 
  Good grasp of how each piece fits in with organization's overall goals and 
  needs.  Extensive experience with object oriented design and development.  
  Ability to learn and integrate new development techniques, tools, and skills 
  quickly, soon becoming productive in the new environment. 

Project Experience
Job posting and application web applications (2005) 
  Developing job posting and job application web applications to allow HR 
  department to quickly build new listings from existing postings or templates, 
  allow current employees to apply over the corporate intranet, and others to 
  apply over a secure internet application. 
Software agent research prototype (2004-2005) 
  Designed and developed java subsystems for a proof of concept distributed 
  agent system: rule engine subsystem, end-user rule builder GUI, tracking 
  subsystem, other subsystem APIs, and system utilities.  Mentored team members 
  in J2EE design, Java patterns, and refactoring.  Worked with client 
  representatives in developing roadmap for overall project. 
Java Servlet/Applet timecard (2003) 
  Developed time card applet interface to an existing small business accounting 
  system including employee entry and signing of hours and supervisor approval 
  and printing. 
Configurable real time engine data display (2003)
  Developed prototype system to provide a user configurable display system for 
  an integrated bridge system for Navy small boats.  The system monitors and 
  displays real time data feeds from multiple engines in text or graphics mode. 
Port J2EE application from JBoss to WebSphere (2003) 
  Ported human resources application from JBoss to IBM WebSphere. 
Custom Java Servlet development (2003)
  Supported an integrated university course information system with faculty 
  submitted and maintained syllabi with custom servlets and applications.  
  Developed a servlet wrapper around an existing Perl based on-line courses 
  application, conversion applications to support web-based submission of 
  documents, and controllers to manage the links between course information, 
  documents, on-line courses, and syllabi. 
Web portal development / Java mentoring (2003) 
  Assisted information technology personnel in an existing web portal project 
  and the integration with LDAP server, existing applications, and custom 
  security modules. 
Human resources employee evaluation web application (2002-2003) 
  Developed workflow employee evaluation J2EE application.  Supervisors, 
  managers, and human resources personnel each play an active role making 
  decisions that modify the evaluation, return it for review, or send it further 
  in the workflow process.  
J2EE Mentoring (2002) 
  Mentored a client's Java developers in the use of J2EE/EJB.  Trained key 
  personnel in design guidelines and assisted in migration of their custom 
  framework to JBoss. 
Subscription based web application for building a document library (2002) 
  Developed role-based J2EE application (JBoss/Jetty) using JSP, Servlets, and 
  EJB to allow an organization to build a community library of original 
  documents, abstracts, and other references with custom categories, full text 
  searching, and browsing.  
Data distribution and collection application with WinCE/PocketPC client (2002) 
  Developed data distribution and collection application (J2ME) to allow a non-
  programmer to generate custom forms and wizards for use on a handheld client.  
  The administrator distributes data in XML format to handheld clients and 
  performs automatic or selective updates after the client uploads the modified 
  dataset. 
WRM-CA, War Reserve Materiel Capability Assessment (1999-2001) 
  System architect and lead developer for a multi-tier system using Java Message 
  Service for automatic notification of clients and users and Java/Swing client.  
  Portions of the server components are also accessible through a CORBA 
  interface. 
 
Design experience 
  J2EE, Java 2 Enterprise Edition design and development       6 years
  Web Services design and development                          1 year
  Multi-tier, distributed systems design and development      10 years
  Software and database analysis, design, and development     25 years
  Handheld systems design and development                      1 year
  Peer to peer (P2P) design and development                    5 years
  CORBA, Common Object Request Broker Architecture             2 years
  Object oriented design and development                      16 years

Languages and Tools experience 
  Java                                                         8 years
  J2EE (IBM WebSphere, BEA WebLogic, Tomcat, JBoss)            6 years
  TIBCO (BusinessWorks/Rendezvous)                             1+ years
  Borland/Delphi                                              10 years
  Palm OS/Java 2 Micro Edition (J2ME)                          1 year
  PocketPC/WinCE                                               1 year
  SQL (Oracle, Microsoft, DB2)                                 9 years
  Others (CORBA, Pick/UniData, C/C++, FORTRAN, COBOL)



Work Experience 
  Sunetos, Inc.      1998-present
                     Multi-tier, distributed system architect and developer
  Synergy, Inc.      1996-1998
                     Software design and development
  Rotman & Sjoquist  1988-1996
                     Extensive consulting and programming in a partnership
  Cedarville College 1982-1996
                     Various roles ending with Asst. Dir. of Computer Services
  Cedarville College 1985-1994
                     Adjunct Instructor, computer language courses
  Custom development 1980-1988
                     Custom software development for various businesses.

Education 
  B.A. Business Administration, Cedarville College, June 1982, GPA 3.5/4.0
  Computer Information Systems emphasis
